# CS344 - C Programming and Unix
Although this class was called C Programming and **Unix**, we used mainly C Programming in the context of a Linux system. While Linux shares many similar commands, designs, and resources as a Unix system, Linux is still only a Unix-**like** system, and the distinction between these two systems has been made very clear to me through StackOverflow, Reddit, and HackerNews. Some people will vigorously defend the fact that Linux is **not** a Unix system (and judging by how long I've been on this tangent I suppose I am one of them) and I think this course should be renamed to some thing like "C Programming II" or "Advanced C Programmming", but I digress.

This course basically boiled down to learning how to perform more complex operations using C, such as, reading and writing to binary files, endianness, creating programs to communicated over TCP and UDP connections, managing memory, oganizing C code into multiple files, and creating Make files to compile large projects.

# In This Folder
Since the homework and programming assignments for this class were not particularly interesting or difficult, I've opted to include only the final project for this course.

The final project for this course was to create a server and client program that were to communicate over a TCP connection. Both sides of the program were to have various features and requirements that, at the time of writing this, I either cannot find or am too lazy to go find. It is also important to note that **this project does not work** it has lots of memory leaks and segmentation faults. This was a group project that was assigned over spring break during one of the most stressful semesters of my life, so my group did not start working on this project until 2 days before it was due (and I ended up pulling an all-nighter and doing most of the work). The only reason I am including this project in this repo is because, despite it not working as intended, I still learned a lot from it and, frankly, I think it's impressive just how much of this project I did by myself the day before it was due.